if you're in the Ecom space you know
that good product photography is hard to
find and often expensive and making
interesting creators from those product
photos is often even more timec
consuming and tough to do so today I'm
going to show you how just using mid
journey and Photoshop I turned this
photo and this photo into this photo
we're going to make it a quick one today
so let's get right into it the first
thing you're going to need is a photo of
the product itself this can be just
taken with your phone use Converse Ling
to remove the background if you just
want to do it quick and easy doesn't
have to be super clean or anything like
that we're going to work on that later
in Photoshop as you can see here I've
got this pill bottle from Eterna it's a
sement of some sort we're going to use
this as kind of the base for what we're
going to make the the product image for
the next thing you need is going to be a
mid-journey subscription if you're in
the creative space at all you should
have a mid Journey subscription even if
you don't use the actual images that
outputs the kind of ideas ideation it
comes up with there super super helpful
I think it's great we're going to go
over the prompt that I used to get this
so this was the final image that I got
as you can see there's a bunch here that
it gave me I upscaled this one so let's
look at the prompt I use as you can see
it is a supplement bottle it's on EX
circular platform it's got water and
Mist around it the uh prompt was a blue
supplement bottle emerging from
splashing dark water surrounded by m
smoke in in a storm on circular
platforms so a ISM so blue s bottle then
emerging with splashing Dark Water so
describing the surrounding it could be
you know sitting in sand on the beach
you know like whatever it is your items
kind of tee towards surrounded by Mist
smoke and a storm that could be you know
if you're on a beach surrounded by palm
trees and birds flying over overhead on
circular platforms you can just kind of
change the prompt to kind of fit
whatever it is you're looking for but
it's a pretty basic prompt you should
have a good idea kind of of what you're
looking for based on this just think of
like other product images you've seen
and when you are generating this majne
actually lets you upload images so if
you click the little image button here
upload the photo of your product itself
and it should give you something closer
to the shape of what you're looking from
here you're going to upscale the image
just using the subtle button here to
make just a basically larger image of it
going to download it and then we're
going to dive right into Photoshop so
I've already completed this in Photoshop
but I'm going to give you a breakdown of
what you're going to do straight away
you want two or three duplicates
straight away of the original mid
Journey image the next thing you want to
do is you want to select wherever the
text is I've done this already but if
you select like around here as we saw in
the previous photo you're going to use
Genera to fill and say remove text this
should do a pretty good job getting
halfway there if it doesn't try content
to wear fill mess around with it a
little bit but it should be pretty close
to get as I said you going to duplicate
this image straight away so on the next
duplicate of the mid Journey image
you're going to select the product and
say remove the container remove item
whatever it is this will give you a base
plate to work from but you still have
the original here with the text removed
next you're going to have your actual
item you want to make sure that you have
the original base plate still in there
with the mid Journey generated bottle in
there because you're going to use that
to give you a general guide of the size
you can go for with this this is to kind
of just place it properly on the
platform and we're going to look into
kind of how we blend this now so the
first thing I did with this image with
everything here set up exactly like this
they selected very Loosely around the
base of the item cuz that should be in
water that should be sitting on the
platform itself and very simply I used
the generative fill tool so I select it
all around here and I just typed in
generative fill and I typed in water
splash base this gave me this now if I
look here at Photoshop actually gives
you a number of options I can click
through here and try these out but this
one clearly looks the best as you can
see here if I zoom in this looks like
the bottom of the bottle is actually
sitting in the water now on top of the
uh the the platform after that what I
did is I went back to our original mid
Journey image is our base layer that has
the original mid Journey generated
supplement bottle in it so it looks like
this I cut out the supplement bottle I
asked Photoshop gener of AI to remove
the splashes and things like that but I
ended up with a basic version of just
this this bottle then if I reenable
these layers on the water splash base I
took this copy of the bottle and I
placed it on top see when I do that you
can actually see the little water
droplets and things like that that are
are coming through I set the mode to
linear Dodge ad over here and I set the
opacity to 15% if I set this to 100% now
how bright that is but I've manipulated
the original image of the bottle using
command click here to move around so I
get those shadows and those highlights
and things like that that are going to
go directly on the bottle and make it
look more realistic as you can see was
100% there this do look correct I had
erased around some of the text and stuff
here to make it more legible we bring it
back down 50 that gives you that kind of
nice realistic look I also will go into
into the original bottle all adjust the
curves image adjustments curves bring
these up and down you know highlight
things a bit you know I've already done
this but it just makes it look a little
more realistic that's kind of fit the
setting and the lighting a little bit
better now the thing that I think really
brings this to the next level in terms
of realism it's something very simple I
searched water droplet PNG took these
water droplets place them right on top
out of them just in different areas this
is the same image just duplicated over
and over and I just moved it around and
erased some sections flipped it put it
in other sections and immediately just
makes it look significantly more re
realistic next thing I did was I just
added the company's logo just got it
from their website I think and just copy
and pasted it in there now one thing
that you can change depending on the
image that you have this base of this
item is covered with that generative
fill that we did with the water but some
things you might want to be actually
like sitting on a desk or a table or
someone's hand when someone's holding
something or something sitting on a
table there's a base shadow that he
might not even notice it's not just like
the drop shadow we usually see there's a
little Shadow right at the bottom of the
thing it's sitting on that kind of shows
where the item is sometimes you might
want to keep uh your base image with the
generated product like this in order to
generate that shadow to keep that kind
of there with this I like the little
water droplets that were kind of jumping
around at the back here so I decided to
keep that whole whole section so I don't
actually have the removed section turned
on it looks a little bit too clean it
looks like there's kind of something
missing again it doesn't look like it's
inter in the environment if I add this
in you got kind of water jumping around
little extra stuff here it just makes it
look like it's kind of more actually
inside the environment itself so now
you've got your kind of basic version
done what you're going to do here is
create a new layer you're going to go to
image Play
Image what I like to do is go to filter
camera raw filter and here you can mess
with it kind of like emulates the look
of the camera a little bit right so I
can bump the contrast a little bit bring
some of those highlights up because this
image is very kind of Otherworldly and
interesting let bring the Shadows down a
little those white slightly whiter black
slightly blacker that was too much of
our quality or too much of our our
details minus 8 there texture bring that
up a little bit that kind of makes the
water droplets pop let's do that Clarity
can be a bit too much sometimes this is
going to do over the top now I don't
want that I should have bring the
clarity down a little bit and this is I
think the kind of real defining thing is
the grain I think adding a decent amount
of of grain not that much but around
there makes it look like was taken with
like an actual camera as that kind of
like natural grain to it like okay and
there you go now you've got product
image that can be used in ad creatives
on social media on Shopify product pages
anywhere that you need it to and it took
basically about 15 to 20 minutes with
mid journey and some photoshop and this
applies to all sorts of different photos
I'm going to show you another one I just
did in a second this is another very
common type of photo so this thing is
like you know it's got a it's a
pre-workout supplement for a gym brand
it's got a particular flavor fruit punch
so you want to like surrounded by fruit
or uh you know this big orange juice
Blast coming out at the top so I'm going
to break down how we did this one too
I'm going to start off actually by
showing you the mid Journey prpt we used
for this as you can see here this one
took a little bit more testing as I was
messing with different prompt Styles and
adding in the reference image for M
journey to take note of but eventually
we did get something that worked pretty
well so the one that we finally end up
using was this one here it says a black
tub of gym pre-workout supplemented with
white label floating in the air at an
angle mango freze behind mango juice
splashing cinematic product shot bright
orange backdrop bright Vibes as you can
see moury actually didn't fully listen
to me there it doesn't have it floating
in the air at an angle but I'm sure if I
kept add it and kept giving it more
instruction it would the same process as
usual you're going to upscale it subtle
and then you're going to download it now
with the image of Photoshop we're going
to do what we did before we're going to
duplicate it a bunch of times going to
walk you through the different things I
did in order to make this image work the
final version of this image we saw
before looks like this so how did I get
it like this it required a lot of
manipulating the size and angles of the
photo if I turn this photo off and see
the base one I've actually deleted the
upper part of the uh the section I
wanted the orange Splash gone but I
needed to manipulate the uh shape of the
bottle in order to fit my new soap
bottle so I draged this across a little
bit and then I added in these orange
liquid splashes as you can see all I've
got left when I have this here is
actually just the base as I mentioned
the base is important when sitting on
something gives us this Shadow
underneath makes it seem like it's
actually sitting on the table these are
all here just little fill-ins I did to
to cover up shadows and things so let's
pull in the actual uh item itself so the
item itself is here as you can see I've
don't we talking about before by
positioning it properly on top of the
previous mid jury generated image so
again the process we have is we've got
multiple duplicated layers with the
bottom layer we've got a second layer
usually with the item removed we've got
a third layer that has just the mid
Journey item taken out of it and then we
have our own actual product photo so
after I take that I've got it kind of
messed around the back of the layers
here to get everything looking how I
wanted to and get everything moved
around cut things out remove things all
that sort of stuff then what I do is I
take the mid Journey photo of the
generated image and I remove the label
from it again I've say l Dodge here I'm
going to S this some normal just you see
what it what it looks like and bring it
up the opacity up just looks like a big
tube you know like it's just a it's a
large black tube it's got those
highlights and that texture that's what
we're really looking for here so then I
set it to linear Dodge I set the opacity
to about 20% and you can see it's out of
these little kind of lines here these
highlights that make things look good
you can manipulate the size this you can
kind of move the edge if move those
little Reflections there line them up
how I want them to look and know right
on the edge of the the product there and
just get it really looking like as close
to the original midj Journey photo as
possible again that there set to linear
Dodge and AD that's what gives us those
nice highlights and things like that on
top of our original item now again the
original item we're going to do is
you're going to adjust things like the
the the curves so you're going to bring
down a little bit the blocks maybe close
to kind of look try and match the other
items that are around it that are
shadowed and see kind of how dark they
are and maybe not going to we're
actually going to boost the high see we
boost high too much we actually lose the
detail on the in the product a little
bit we're screwing up a little bit there
so it's kind of like a very minor sort
of curve bring it up a little bit too
this isn't a super uh intense adjustment
here uh click okay on that then you can
also adjust the curves on the linear
Dodge layer that's got the details on it
maybe you want to bring the highlights
up a little bit so you can see move up
there you want to keep as much detail as
we can so we're actually going to move
it up a little bit and that's looking
this is kind of done now like this looks
pretty good as it is the other things we
can add are things like a compy logos
and stuff like that I have those here
somewhere but there we go so 7 there so
it's got the company logo just there and
we talked about again what kind of the I
love these little things the things kind
I think really if you've got something
that makes sense to have liquid on it I
think these add a lot to it are the
little water droplet so I turn this
layer on you can see I've got a few
little ones just here and over here and
then you can kind of use the Eraser tool
to kind of make them match set them to
Overlay I actually just the opas overlay
and left them there and now we are going
to do what we did last time we're going
to make a new layer image apply image to
flatten everything filter camera raw
filter boost exposure a little bit that
nice bright orange there boost the
contrast a little bit then after then
let's bring the Shadows ever so slightly
down nine highlights little let's leave
that that's enough kind of on that side
of things but let us add a little bit of
texture for clarity to would be kind of
nice yeah I like that that see that kind
of makes the blacks more black and just
makes things pop a little bit if you
want with this you c a little viget you
can do like this kind of highlight it
but I kind of like just this flat look
I'll just go with zero on that one and
now the grain we're going to add a
little bit of grain see you go too far
that that looks awful right you want
just enough that it looks like it was
taken with a camera or you kind of emate
like a phone look about 25 just get
these nice little Sky lines when you
zoom in and stuff this all looks more
gritty and makes it look a little bit
nicer click okay there we go again
you've got another perfect product photo
that you can use in your creatives you
know as anywhere you want it to this is
I think a super powerful way to make
creative super quickly essentially again
if I walk through the process you are
going to use mid journey to generate an
image use your product photo as a
reference to Mid journey to get the
shape of your item take it into
Photoshop duplicate the bottom layer a
few times you're going to end up with
three plates usually you've got the
original plate you're going to have the
plate that has the product removed and
the plate that is just the mid-journey
product then you're going to have your
own product you bring in use the layers
to organize things properly and have the
midity product on top of the actual
product photo you going to set the
majority product to linear Dodge add and
set it to about 10 to 20% opacity adjust
it so that all the shadows and
highlights match up and then you're
going to kind of mess with the bottom
layers so it looks like the item's
actually sitting where you needed to sit
and then finally you're going to add
some extra details things like water
droplets or anything along those sort of
lines that you're going to do a final
pass of new layer image apply image
filter camera raw mess around so it
looks real add some grain add some
texture and you are good to go that's
just a little insight into how we use Ai
and Photoshop in order to create some
really really cool looking product
images uh this is super super useful for
multiple cases over at Innovative we
offer a specialized AI product photo
creation Service as well as using the
same methods to create killer image
photos for Landers product pages email
designs absolutely everything I'm going
to make the psds for these files
available they be in the link in
description below if you have any
questions feel free to hit me up if you
need more product folds of your brand
feel free to contact me on Twitter at
copy line killer and if you also want to
find out more B doing this yourself or
any tips or tricks feel free to hit me
up see you in the next one peace